[MUSIC]
So we're going to talk about
analog versus digital.
If you remember several lectures ago
we talked about embedded systems,
IT devices, and their interface.
And so at the input they have
a set of sensors that receive
data about the outside world.
Though the sensors could be simple things
like buttons or something like that but
it could be a microphone, a light sensor,
a camera, something like that.
But it senses data about
the outside world.
And then actuators on the other end,
output data to the outside world.
So maybe they're lights, LEDs or speakers,
or just a screen or something like that.
Okay, but
they send data to the outside world.
So there's this interface, sensors at the
input side, actuators at the output side.
And so these devices, they're
sensing physical phenomenon okay, so
if you look at the sensors, the sensors
are sensing physical phenomenon and
physical phenomenon
are often analog signals.
Okay, now let me describe this
difference between analog and
digital just very briefly.
Analog, actually a very quick
way to say it is, analog
to digital is the same as the difference
between real numbers and integers.
Okay, if you remember that, right.
Real numbers are continuous.
So if you get the number,
real numbers between 0 and 1,
there's an infinite number of
real numbers between 0 and 1.
0.5, 0.6, 0.7,
whatever fraction you can think of.
That's an infinite number of values,
of real values, between 0 and 1.
Now integers, however,
can only be 0, or 1, or 2, or so on.
No fractions, so between 0 and 1,
there's just integers 0, integer 1,
it's a finite number, and
a much smaller number, so no fractions.
So that difference
between real numbers and
integers is the same as the difference
between analog and digital.
So if you look at an analog value,
let's take light,
okay, I've got a lot of light,
I've got these lights pointing at my face.
Okay?
Lights, they can be, generally,
they have analog values,
the brightness has an analog value.
So you can take a light and have a dimmer
switch connected to it and make it
a little brighter or a little darker,
right, and depending on how fine your
control is you can have a lot of possible
values between totally off and totally on.
And it's a smooth transition,
you can hit every possible value between
completely dark versus completely
bright by turning your dimmer switch.
So in this way,
light is generally an analog phenomenon.
Also sound,
you can see the same thing there.
Sound I'm talking, right.
I can talk quietly,
I can talk loudly, [LAUGH] right?
I can talk in between.
So I can adjust my volume anywhere
in between completely quiet and
completely loud.
Again, an analog phenomenon.
So the universe.
The world in general to
the perception of humans is analog.
Now physicists will say look,
the world is digital.
If you look down at a subatomic level,
look at quarks and they have fixed states.
Maybe things are digital in reality.
Okay?
They are discreet.
Either as high or low.
Plus, minus.
Right?
Maybe, but to our human
perceptions the world is analog.
So, a lot of these phenomena that you want
to sense are analog, sound, touch, right?
You can push hard, push soft.
Things like this?
They're analog phenomena.
Now, digital phenomena is something
that's either off or on, or
at least has some discrete
number of states.
So for instance these lights,
I could just hook them to a switch.
They're wall switches, right?
I hit off and the whole thing goes off,
or it goes on, right?
So maybe I'm using my
light in a digital way.
It's either all off or all on.
All right?
That's digital.
Or that's discrete, really.
And digital is a version of that.
But that's, so that's basically
the difference between analog and digital.
This is also, you get the same
definition in terms of watches, right?
So my watch is a digital watch, right?
It shows digital numbers.
One second, two seconds.
It doesn't show fractions between seconds.
But if you look at an analog
clock where that second hand is
can point at any fractional
number between seconds, right?
So this is analog to digital.
Now the reason we bring
this up is because these
embedded systems are interacting
with the real world.
And the real world,
to our perceptions, is largely analog.
So say I want to have a sensor that
senses the brightness of light.
That sensor is generally going to be an
analog sensor because it's got to be able
to sense, assuming that the light
is not either off or on,
it could be a little bright, a little
dark, it's got to be an analog sensor.
Now the problem with
this is that our systems,
the microcontrollers that we have,
they are digital systems.
So, they only understand digital data,
specifically zeroes and ones, okay?
Zeroes and ones,
binary data, that's binary.
Zero or one, that's digital.
In order for
our program on our microcontroller to be
able to use information from sensors,
that analog signal has been
converted to a digital value.
And that is what analog to
digital conversion is for.
So we're not going to talk in great
detail about how it's performed.
Now, I have a slide, in a while I'll
show you a little bit about it.
But how it's performed is a complicated
thing, but just understand that
what it does is it takes an analog value
and converts it to a digital number.
Now, this digital representation is maybe
an approximation of the actual analog
value, but that's okay.
It can be a pretty accurate approximation,
as accurate as we need.
So we need analog to digital
conversion at a lot of our inputs.
Not all, some of our inputs can
be buttons, like push buttons.
Then that's actually naturally digital.
It's either pushed or not, so zero one.
But other analog inputs,
like lights and sounds and
stuff like that, those things
typically have to go through analog to
digital conversion before they
can be used in our system.
Now on the output end, you usually
need digital to analog conversion, or
you often need digital
to analog conversion.
So let's say I have a microcontroller and
it's outputting some
sound to some speakers.
These speakers are analog devices,
they need analog signal.
But the microcontroller is
outputting zeros and ones, so
you need digital to analog conversion
to take those digital signals,
convert them to analog and
then drive the speaker with them.
So it's very common to see digital
to analog conversion on the output
of a system and
analog to digital conversion on the input.
Because in the middle of that system,
in that microcontroller,
it's almost all digital.
It's primarily digital.
So the world is often analog, so
you need conversion on either end.
So just to give you a little example
[COUGH] of how you might convert,
how you might form analog
to digital conversion.
You take some analog signal, a wave form
over time, and we see one right here.
This is, let's say it's a sound way, okay.
So if the sound wave, sound is pressure.
Pressure through the air.
And it changes over time.
So you can measure sound waves you can
look at sound like we've seen here in this
picture where the x axis is time.
And the y axis is pressure in the air.
And that's actually a sine wave that
you're looking at right there so
that's like a pure tone.
One frequency just a [SOUND] you know,
a frequency as pure as you can get,
that's a sine wave.
That's what it would sound
like at some frequency.
So the Y-axis is generally the pressure,
the air pressure.
Now a microphone, the job of a microphone,
is to take that pressure and
convert it into voltage.
Okay?
Because our machines can't understand
pressure, they understand voltage,
they read voltages.
So if you look at the Y-axis as
it's labelled, it says voltage, and
then in parentheses, pressure.
So what they're showing is the voltage
at the output of the microphone.
But still it's an analog waveform.
It's smooth, the red line, it's analog.
And it changes smoothly over time.
Now the analog to digital converter
will take that waveform and
represent it piece by piece
as a set of digital numbers.
So you can see that step.
So if you look at that
red waveform it's smooth.
It's real numbers.
It's an analog waveform.
Superimpose on that you
see the stair-stepping.
They see essentially just
a stair-stepping signal.
That's always has discreet values.
So there are those levels,
those horizontal lines, each one
represents a discreet digital number.
And you know, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
And if you look at that stair stepping
wave form that's overlapped on top of
the analog wave form.
It only ever hits one of those lines.
It's never in-between, right.
It's at a line or up or down, right.
That's digital.
So you can take this analog wave form,
this red one and approximate it with this
stair stepping digital wave form and
so at every time, every unit of time,
the digital wave form is always at a fixed
voltage value in this case, right?
And so you can just have a series
of voltage values over different
points in time and store it.
And that is an approximate
representation of analog wave form.
And that is what analog to
digital conversion does.
And we need it to,
in order to represent any kind of
analog input data to the system.
And note that on the outputs to the
actuators you get the opposite going on.
So you start with the digital waveform,
the stair stepping waveform.
And the digital to analog conversion
converts it into that red or
something close to that red,
smooth analog waveform that you see.
And that gets sent out to
whatever your actuator is.
Say a speaker, or something like that.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]